Elizabeth Sandoval: How are you
Gwenevere Abriel: Good. Let's first check on audio and video, make sure that my video and audio is in sync. Everything is in sync. I'm talking
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Care.
Gwenevere Abriel: And YouTube
How's the connection.
Elizabeth Sandoval: It's pretty good things, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'm going to
Gwenevere Abriel: So with that, I can say hi.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm glad you're here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not an easy thing to do. You have so much going on.
I'm glad you
Elizabeth Sandoval: I feel so overwhelmed and side have Bill, you know,
Elizabeth Sandoval: I just like this anxiety. I like
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like, like I want to jump off my skin.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you
Gwenevere Abriel: You were mentioning
Gwenevere Abriel: Going to find your last moment here I'm opening up a note to
Gwenevere Abriel: On a text that you, that same description right
Gwenevere Abriel: Not able to see. Yeah. Were you able to reach a doctor all women or no.
Elizabeth Sandoval: No, I haven't been able to get them.
All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, what are you currently trying. When you think about. I mean, we get context of what's going on. But what are you trying to do, whether it's cognitive, whether it's behavioral to try to shut that busy mind down
Elizabeth Sandoval: It's like, I, I've been trying just to like I trailer and then I just tried to like take some time to sit somewhere quiet and just kind of
Elizabeth Sandoval: Slow down my thinking. This looks great. Looks like it's always like going even when I lay down. You know, like I'm always speaking. So I'm nothing really been trying to keep it felt like
Nothing. Oh.
Elizabeth Sandoval: No, I just think too much is going on, I guess, I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, well let's let's try a couple of the things
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm the first one is
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you had if you had a witness yet to all of the
Gwenevere Abriel: Thinking. Have you had one where you sat with whether it's mom or anyone and you've been able to say those thoughts out loud and have a witness have you had that yet.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I talk a lot to my boyfriend.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yes, to my older daughter.
Elizabeth Sandoval: And my niece.
Elizabeth Sandoval: And my mom.
Elizabeth Sandoval: You know, but mostly like
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like my boyfriend.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Is pretty supportive
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you notice that
Gwenevere Abriel: You do any editing when you're talking to your boyfriend, for example. Well, there's some things I can say it about 99% of it. There's a little piece. I can't quite say
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yeah.
Elizabeth Sandoval: A little bit.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Well, I think I could tell him anything
Elizabeth Sandoval: I just, I don't know quite understand it because he he grew up in a different type of helpful. I would think like he's kind of on his own like our family is kind of more like I don't know closer so I don't know. He really understands like
Elizabeth Sandoval: I don't know.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Part of all sometimes
Gwenevere Abriel: The heart rate because you have a phrase, you'll say,
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just us. It's just us that one.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yeah.
Elizabeth Sandoval: He has like he has sisters. He has two other two sisters
Elizabeth Sandoval: So,
Elizabeth Sandoval: They all kind of grew up separate from one another so
Elizabeth Sandoval: I'm not saying you know he probably doesn't have maybe feels the same way, but
Elizabeth Sandoval: I don't know.
Elizabeth Sandoval: It's just hard to understand, like,
Elizabeth Sandoval: I guess how much I'm going to miss them and how much I
Elizabeth Sandoval: Just have this sadness and me.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Because I know he noticed is a lot because in your eyes a little more sappy lately, or
Elizabeth Sandoval: Just more like have unlike a just yeah
Elizabeth Sandoval: Just like moody. I try not to pay it out with anyone, but it's really hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: If, if that phrase, but I'd rather you have a phrase, and I might be saying it wrong. What do you do remember when you think about this, this loss.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember I was saying it's just so that's all I have. Like you would say third certain phrases like that that really stood out to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's, what's that thing you hear yourself saying like this person doesn't understand they don't understand my brother and I, what
Elizabeth Sandoval: We understand each other.
Elizabeth Sandoval: You think that have an understanding. Yeah, like
Elizabeth Sandoval: We, I don't know, it's just like something that we have. I feel like we just had like this special bond where we kind of understand where
Elizabeth Sandoval: Each one's coming from and not ever being judgmental towards like very, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So if I were to rewind. Let's say some of the videos, maybe from a group or something. What's that phrase that that I'm remembering and I'm probably getting wrong. What do you, what do you think you're you're saying
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't remember.
Yeah.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I think that's maybe also, I feel like a lot is going to, I don't know. Not a lot is going to be left on me but
Gwenevere Abriel: Say, what will be don't deprive yourself what's going to be put on you.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Know my my niece right now she's having a real hard time with it all too.
Elizabeth Sandoval: So I know I'm going to have to step up and be more there figure be there for a little more to for my nephew.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I just don't know nominate time management everyone you know I felt like it's a little overwhelming sometimes I want to be there for everyone. And my parents.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Are just i feel like i don't i feel like i'm i'm just like breakdown. You know, like
Elizabeth Sandoval: I need to be strong for everyone.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's what's wiping out. It's the house.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You've already been doing that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Haven't you
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's play this one all the way out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just see if your best guess is really the only outcome.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you don't take it all on and you don't step up instead you step back and you go, metaphorically on a hike.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, now I don't step up.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's going to happen. What's this worst case scenario that your mind keeps busy with
Elizabeth Sandoval: I worried that my niece and nephew are might lose himself as far as like maybe start drinking or maybe doing drugs.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Because I noticed a nice she's, she's been doing that lately and that worries me a lot because, you know, my brother have the same issues. You know, I don't want them to end up like that, at such an early age, you know,
Elizabeth Sandoval: And I don't want them to deal with their grief in that way either.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where's where's their mother in this story.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Well there she's around. I mean, she she obviously their divorce and she had her own life she's there.
Elizabeth Sandoval: She's, she's supportive. I think she has her own place. And my nephew has his own place. I think my niece is going to be going to live with her mom soon, though, too. So I'm hoping that that happens.
Elizabeth Sandoval: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: How is it that you step up. How is it that space, even for you to step into is there, you see it, how is it that their mother isn't
Gwenevere Abriel: There in that space that you're wanting to step or you think I'm gonna have to step in and step up. I wonder why that spaces even available for you to step up into
You know,
Elizabeth Sandoval: I don't know. I like that.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I don't, I don't know, maybe because I feel like I'm like going to be representing like my brother. Now, you know,
Elizabeth Sandoval: That part of him, you know,
Elizabeth Sandoval: Because like I tell you a lot about like my mom, she I felt like she's very fragile sometimes like
Elizabeth Sandoval: Keep in our family together.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I guess is what I worry about you know
Elizabeth Sandoval: Because I feel like sometimes we're like now. With all this going on with my brother, we become closer but you know after say something happens. I don't want the US to separate, you know, and go our own ways or something or my niece and my nephew to withdraw and kind of, you know,
Elizabeth Sandoval: Get lost in their own
Elizabeth Sandoval: In their in their grief, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: I get that and all of that, that's them. And now let's focus on you for a moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: How does it feel to be closer to your family right now at a time like this. How does it feel to be closer to your mother and even to your brother, possibly don't know. But how does it feel
Elizabeth Sandoval: Feels better. I mean bills complete no
Elizabeth Sandoval: Family, it's like it's gonna be instead of separation.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I feel like we we wasted like kind of a lot of time, let me
Gwenevere Abriel: Focus on your super you wasted time. See if you can find it, or did you waste time
Elizabeth Sandoval: I'm not kidding, like how I felt sooner, like, you know, putting those boundaries. No, my mom and stuff.
Elizabeth Sandoval: You know, I wish I would have done that.
Elizabeth Sandoval: You know, we would be further, I mean it. We just got to start somewhere, but
Elizabeth Sandoval: I'm glad. Like, I feel good. Now that
Elizabeth Sandoval: We're close, I just don't want to lose that later on.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's visit again that thought of how there's even this year for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: To to take up that space. Are you taking on sort of this idea of
Gwenevere Abriel: The position of a father that these kids.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Don't know. I don't know about that. But I just know like my niece like lately, she's been here a lot. So I see that she's like, you know, more like relying on me. You know, when she's when she's not at my brothers to come speak here.
Elizabeth Sandoval: And stuff so I feel like she feels comfortable
Gwenevere Abriel: It. How would like for you to have her stayed there.
Gwenevere Abriel: A truly I genuinely mean that
Elizabeth Sandoval: I bet it's a little overwhelming to
Elizabeth Sandoval: Because I have a lot going on in my household is. It is.
Elizabeth Sandoval: So it does make me feel a little overwhelmed or like, like, like I said, She's, she's been drinking a little bit so like I don't want
Elizabeth Sandoval: Her my son to start like trying to drink together or any of that. So I worry about that.
Elizabeth Sandoval: young mothers me
Gwenevere Abriel: What is it stays in worry and it's missing the action that you are starting to enjoy it with your mother. We're starting to speak directly to her. You are liking that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you're just spending time worrying. So let's see if maybe you've been actually taking some action. See if you can take that intuition that insight that you know analysis of
Gwenevere Abriel: You are your son's mother.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And also this other person has a need. So both of those are existing at the same time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was. What about you, what do you need slow way down. Let's just focus there for a little bit. What is it that you want. What do you need when you notice she needs needs to come over
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you want to do.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Let her know like maybe also the boundaries of what it's going to take for for me to feel comfortable and wanting to be here, you know,
Elizabeth Sandoval: Sometimes I'm girl like kind of not quite with my friends I've learned to be more outspoken, but it's like, I don't want to hurt someone's feelings, but lately I'm, like, the heck with that you know my house so
Gwenevere Abriel: Here, how it actually happens. Try not to edit it. I really want to be let in your world. When you say, well, let me hear how you talk to her.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Well,
Elizabeth Sandoval: I told her the other day.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I was like, look right. I don't mind you coming over here. It's just when you come over here. I don't want you to be drinking and bringing alcoholics into my house.
Elizabeth Sandoval: You know, I don't if you guys, you need some support or you want to hang out with your cousin or with us. That's going to be one thing that is not going to happen.
Elizabeth Sandoval: You know, we could have dinner.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Talk, but
Elizabeth Sandoval: Other than that, like, that's what's going to be going on.
Elizabeth Sandoval: That's what I have to offer you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And was it delivered just the way you said it like that.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Kind of basically a
Elizabeth Sandoval: pretty mellow architecture and that way.
Elizabeth Sandoval: You know,
Elizabeth Sandoval: I tried to be
Elizabeth Sandoval: Not like
Elizabeth Sandoval: rude or but just like kind of frustrated for life of what a lot
Gwenevere Abriel: Know what happened right before that sort of discussion what happened right before that that prompted that discussion what happened right before that.
Elizabeth Sandoval: You said, What would make me feel comfortable or how would I
Change.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your
Gwenevere Abriel: With your nice what happened right before that discussion with her. What happened right before that. What prompted that discussion.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Just being that she's been drinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, that's prior knowledge what literally on a timeline, what happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: Try to track it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You saw something heard something I already heard about the thought you were. I heard that you are aware, she's drinking, but you don't come like us. The first time hearing it, you became aware of it.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Somehow
Elizabeth Sandoval: So it's happened a few times so you know the last time that I found out about it because they try to be sneaky go
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like she'll sneak in and my time or something, or I'll get up and I'll be like, Oh my God, what a face to face. You know, so I don't want that. So,
Elizabeth Sandoval: That's kind of like got this situation going of me telling you look this thing going to happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: In a
Elizabeth Sandoval: Room or or with my son, or we do if you want to come over. We can you could come hang out with, there's not gonna be no drinking. That's not the way we got trying to tell her.
Elizabeth Sandoval: She needs to deal with her grief in a different type of way. No, it's kind of, I don't want to be hypocritical towards her anything but
Elizabeth Sandoval: I am I trying to help everyone that society. I can't even help myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Play this
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go. Worst case scenario, she continues to drink that she's made that her solution and they continue to sneak then what happens. Let's play it all the way out and see how this goes.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I'll end up probably
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yelling at my son and not letting her come over
Elizabeth Sandoval: But I don't want it because I know she does need some type of sport, but if she's gonna follow my rules as far as that goes.
Elizabeth Sandoval: With it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then what let's say he's yelled at and she's told you're not following the house rules, then what happens played all the way through.
Elizabeth Sandoval: And then sometimes I'll you know act like or so sometimes it's still, it's still happens. So that's another thing. And it's like,
Elizabeth Sandoval: It's like, I don't feel respected because you're obviously not listening to what I'm telling
Elizabeth Sandoval: So that's so frustrating.
Elizabeth Sandoval: And I mean, my son, she's 2020 years ago and my son's 19 so
Elizabeth Sandoval: It's like
Elizabeth Sandoval: They're at that age where you tell them, but like, hey, you can't
Elizabeth Sandoval: Make them do anything like
Elizabeth Sandoval: I took away his car.
Elizabeth Sandoval: He doesn't have his car. He's not driving. I don't let them drive my car or anybody his car so
Elizabeth Sandoval: That's one thing to do.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I'm not paying for his phone. Bill Murray or
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you're, you're working it, Mom, you are you're working all the things you can
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: That's still a solution. Can you relate to escaping into a mood altering substance as an escape for grief and distress.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you shaking your head no.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you serious,
Elizabeth Sandoval: Are you. Oh, wait. Say that one more time. Maybe I misunderstood what you said.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yeah, that won't work nine
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you have compassion. Can you relate to escaping into drugs and alcohol in order to not feel grief.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Hello.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yeah, for sure. Yeah.
So too, forgiving.
Gwenevere Abriel: To see that in your son to see that in your nice and you are still learning how to navigate your own recovery. Where do you turn your turning to spirituality
Gwenevere Abriel: And it is helping and
Gwenevere Abriel: Some of it that's not
Gwenevere Abriel: The mind is unruly.
Gwenevere Abriel: It will throw out worst cases. What else almost constantly and it's probably keeping you awake. It's not coming up with great ideas coming up with the worst case scenarios.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I am getting little bits, more and more of what's really going on over there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And there's a fair amount of editing, as if it's not okay that you would yell at a kid.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean what parent hasn't
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Wanted
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so this is where you are probably confronted with that piece about I don't want to be a hypocrite.
Gwenevere Abriel: If the worst thing is they say, You're full of
Gwenevere Abriel: You're doing it, why can I, you're such a hypocrite.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I'm that kid that young person saying that to you. What do you, what do you say back to me as an alternative solution.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I've. This has come up and I told them look people I have been a mess up and I have had, like, hit rock bottom, it's me.
Elizabeth Sandoval: But now that I'm I've gotten older, and my mindsets. Totally different.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like I know like it was wrong, you know,
That's
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you tell them to do what do you actually do. One of them is prayer. That's a go to
Gwenevere Abriel: Giving a philosophy to a 20 year old. Good luck with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you do
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you're you're having to face significant pressure right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: You think I can tell you that think and think and think and think and think and think that they can pray. What else are you doing to try and solve this distress.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Screaming
Gwenevere Abriel: Screaming
Elizabeth Sandoval: I don't know what's gonna make me feel
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like I'm trying to like figure it out.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I don't want to, like, you know, I don't want to use. That's like the last thing on my mind. But I just stopped thinking
Elizabeth Sandoval: So hard
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you go and you tell people you tell your son. You say, I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm in it too. I'm scared and us talking US connecting as humans us loving each other and coming closer. This is going to be how we're going to get through this not divided
Gwenevere Abriel: And so you do it. You trust that instinct in yourself. The fact that you are liking this connection with your family and you say okay, we're pulling out. Pull it. Everybody grab a pillow. We're all sitting around here and we're going to talk
Gwenevere Abriel: We're not going to sit in our room separately. We're not going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Get it, and you can talk for real about how easy it is to want to escape these difficult emotions you know more than anybody else does.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, I don't know that you fully grieved yet. And now you're going to be facing
Elizabeth Sandoval: Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: But you can either turn to this beautiful family of yours and live this belief about connection.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you can do it half assed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your kids will pick up on it. They're going to pick up on the bullshit and they're going to call you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sorry about the bad words. I don't have better
Gwenevere Abriel: Your answer could be, I don't know, son. I'm terrified. I'm afraid I won't be strong enough for this either. And then I see you drinking and it reminds me of my own insecurities.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just sit down. Let's. Yes. Did you hear that you just did a nice, big breath because. Isn't that the truth. That's the truth.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Bruce sometimes
Gwenevere Abriel: Our children pick up on it, they know when we're doing it. Yeah, we're not really coming full tilt this is no time. We need and we come together, we
Gwenevere Abriel: Sit down and we say, let's go in the kitchen. I know everything all and isolate. We all want to do that. We're all going to come in the kitchen. We're going to make
Gwenevere Abriel: enchiladas. We're going to do it. We're going to fix them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Pound Cake. We're going to do this and we're going to do this right now, and we're going to talk about our worst fears and we're going to do it together. We're not going to isolate. That's what alcohol wants you to do. That's what all these substances wants you to do they want you to reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: The fact that you love and there is a threat. A real one, that there might be loss of love. There might be a loss. This is happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I am sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm the deliver a difficult information. It is
Gwenevere Abriel: And I also know something else that I think you may have forgotten.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are living testament that things will be okay. Again, they will be
Gwenevere Abriel: Wrong. Okay.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Scary.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like the touch. We're like,
Elizabeth Sandoval: Weird like
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like that attachment, we have, like, it's like going away. I don't know, or
Gwenevere Abriel: Just keep describing. If you need to stop.
Gwenevere Abriel: CRYING
Elizabeth Sandoval: I feel like me, my brother always been like really close.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I just
Elizabeth Sandoval: Felt
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like empty years
Gwenevere Abriel: Emptiness
Gwenevere Abriel: Here.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's there forever. Are those the thoughts.
Elizabeth Sandoval: To like
Elizabeth Sandoval: A loss.
Elizabeth Sandoval: This is my brother, you know, like, that was just I really was my husband, but that was just my blood. This is my blood.
Gwenevere Abriel: Last time you tried to escape going through
Gwenevere Abriel: This time, I'm guessing you want to do it or you move through. You don't want to relapse. Right. You want to actually see
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, it will be
Gwenevere Abriel: It means you're going to cry means you're going to be a it means you're going to have to sit with this fear and Elizabeth
Gwenevere Abriel: Your son. If you can't motivate it for you. Your son is tea party heartache. His heart is going to be broken by people
Elizabeth Sandoval: You
Gwenevere Abriel: Know are going to pass in his life to and
Gwenevere Abriel: You're the role model for him. We knew it happens all at the same time what you're giving to your son is a bill discomfort of emptiness.
Gwenevere Abriel: He's gonna have to do the same thing, but if you don't sit with it. He has nowhere to look
Gwenevere Abriel: Except the simple answer of what a pill and what alcohol. It's so seductive that it will make all of this go away and it will not the grief will be right there waiting when sobriety hits and the hangovers. There will be right there, waiting. So guess what
Gwenevere Abriel: If you've already made up your mind that you're going to be a woman, a year from now, you're going to be alive and you're from you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you just kind of decide, Am I going to be this woman that has lost his brother that continues to be this amazing strong resilient woman mother friend daughter. Am I going to be here a year from now, you have you made up your mind you're going to be
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, I am. And who do you want to be.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I want to be Elizabeth and sober and strong.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Happy
Elizabeth Sandoval: So other
Daughter
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'll kind of a mother.
Elizabeth Sandoval: A great mother, let me keep trying my best to do better and better because it is like the learning experience. You know, I sure do you think of things so much different, and
Elizabeth Sandoval: I told my kids, even my daughter. She'll be like, Hey guys, I'm starting to realize like how hard it is, you know, this is really
Elizabeth Sandoval: Two more months so feel gramma
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see the beauty in that
Elizabeth Sandoval: Beautiful things going on. I
Gwenevere Abriel: wish it was just one, but being us humans is such a roller coaster muffins and the more that you can model that for your daughter for your son and say I'm right here it with tears dropping down
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm scared. And I'm not escaping it. This is what being a human is guess what, son. This is it. You, you're going to fall in love.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to love deeply and there will be the trail, there will be disappointment that will be heartache. Sometimes I want as your mother to protect you from it all.
Gwenevere Abriel: I won't be able to, but you can see right here. I am not escaping in to drugs and alcohol. I'm going to live it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Means I'm gonna sit here with us sometimes. And we're going to talk about these difficult things. And we're going to cry together and we're going to feel each other's love support and friendship right here. That's how we're going to get through this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not by hiding in a Roman and sneaking around. Nope, it's going to be better.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it takes
Gwenevere Abriel: Humility your humility.
Gwenevere Abriel: being humble with the fact that this is huge and it's foreign and it's unknown and it's this big empty thing and you're already starting to have a little piece of it and the old ways of doing things.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to be a people pleaser. And I'm going to make everybody. I'm going to take care of everybody, screw that. This demands different this demands leaning into deeper truths about what do I really want right now I want to tell this these of mine. I'm scared to
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's sit down and talk about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's try it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's watch a video, video. Let's read something let's cook together. Let's play together. Let's do our makeup. Let's. I don't care what it is, but it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't deny it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alcohol and Drugs say they say to all of you. You can handle the truth, get out of it. Come over here, it will annihilate you it will wipe you out, it will not you are okay you have faced very difficult things you have faced grief and you are okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not supposed to know how this is going to feel how are we supposed to know
Gwenevere Abriel: We turn towards the people we love and we love them more
Gwenevere Abriel: You spend more time with them.
Gwenevere Abriel: More honesty more vulnerability
Gwenevere Abriel: Translates to more support more confidence more family bond.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I want you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Picture your nice now picture her sneaking in again.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the invitation to you is Elizabeth, don't bother being offended, it's got nothing to do with you. She's doing the best she can
Gwenevere Abriel: You're doing the best you can.
Gwenevere Abriel: Lean in, and invite them to do whatever inspires you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Come over here. Nice. Give me that bottle pour it down. You guys, I told you, you got to see nice I'm gonna kick. Yeah, you can't get it together. Let's spend some time.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you go, whatever that inspiration, what, what, what do you think you guys could do at 2am when you hear her client going around sneaking around what could you do
Elizabeth Sandoval: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what they're doing.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I don't know, just
Gwenevere Abriel: Go into the freezer and saying okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just have some ice cream together. Let's bake some cookies, let's spend some time.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Let's be present.
Gwenevere Abriel: With this sorrow together. Here's a hug.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's lay down on the couch and watch funny videos it's two in the morning. Yes, I want to kick both your butts.
Gwenevere Abriel: I do want to kick your butt. But I relate to you. I am sad beyond sad beyond said, and I need your love. I don't want to escape into to anything. Let's be together let's let's hang out. Come on.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want to yell at you. I don't want to do that. Let's do something different. Let's go play, let's go play a card game. Let's go. Whatever it is, let's go do that.
Elizabeth Sandoval: They like video games.
Elizabeth Sandoval: That were dancing. They like to make little videos to talk
Gwenevere Abriel: So then we do it. So then we get into it. We say, I'm tired. It's two in the morning. Why don't you guys just dance around me make it ticked off with tired lady in the middle, you know what
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, that's a new memory that's a new memory that happened when we get ourselves offended. What's your niece is going through is not about you.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you're going through is about your son.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are going through something
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, that's about you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you share that and say, I'm confused. To that sorrow. I feel for my husband. I don't even have words to describe what is going on with me right now. Nice, son.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's, let's go in the kitchen, let's let's go do a video you guys have to talk. I want to get my mind off of it. Let's, let's go do this thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Why not
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yeah, I think lately. I feel like I'm less fun than it used to be.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like I just feel more serious like I don't I don't feel like a lot.
Elizabeth Sandoval: You don't or
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't know how you feel after you share your truth. You don't know. That's the point. It's all UNKNOWN. That's what this is. It's all holy crap.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's keeping you awake. You're none of us know
Gwenevere Abriel: What you do no love for nice you do no love for sun and you just go do more of that you go do that. You go. Want to hear more about what's going to be like to have a baby and you go do more of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then the fear will come up and it's scary and sad and then all of a sudden you're aware of that that emptiness and I'm going to miss my brother so much. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and then maybe you call your brother. I don't know what you did you draw future and then you go talk to your son, it's going to come and go, but I'll tell you something.
Gwenevere Abriel: It does pass
Gwenevere Abriel: We humans, we feel things intensely, but those feelings do pass
Gwenevere Abriel: Then there's a giggle again.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then there's sorrow. There's excitement and disappointment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just meet each one. Okay, this is what we're at. Okay. First, I see you in here and I'm angry and I want to yell at you. Okay, I don't want to be angry. I love you too so much
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do something. Let's go do something else. I don't want to yell at you guys. I want to feel closer to you. Let's go do something else. It's two in the morning. What can we do video games baking. Watch a funny video. Make a tick tock. What right, you could do that and
Elizabeth Sandoval: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: How are you going to feel about yourself. If that's how a 2am went instead of feeling offended and disrespected, yeah.
Elizabeth Sandoval: A lot better and more
Elizabeth Sandoval: Positive and get we both get more out of it just being angry or me being angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then help them and I could help.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Help me and help them.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because the other version, his son feels misunderstood you continue to feel understood. No one understands the closeness nieces. I don't even know where to begin with that one just misunderstood and scared and all that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now doesn't have access now son doesn't have access to you. Nice doesn't have access to you on. He's mad at me when really what I need is
Gwenevere Abriel: Understanding
Gwenevere Abriel: And you are the one you've got understanding. You know what it's like. And so you're in the same space in the same room with these people that you love you spend time with them.
Gwenevere Abriel: My invitation to you is to spend a little bit of time after you leave here today and just write down some activities and you can let them know
Gwenevere Abriel: This is what we're going to do when you're over here. We're going to go over to our list. It's sitting on the fridge. There's 10 things that we can do when we start to get scared when we start to really and will show up. Typically people don't show up scared they show up angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Irritable short tempered
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, right. So new a new agreement in the family. Let's go do these lists of things. So tell me something. What is something that you can bake.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I like
Elizabeth Sandoval: I like to cook.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Mexican food.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I like cake. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we got bake bake cake. You can put baking on there so but baking cakes to make it easy because we got to be able to get to it quickly and they may want to do that list.
Gwenevere Abriel: They might want to write. Okay, now what is what is something that you can do that would be on TV video computer what would be something that can be added to the list.
Elizabeth Sandoval: And we like to watch ridiculousness.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Always funny.
Gwenevere Abriel: To write that down. Watch ridiculous something
Elizabeth Sandoval: They say 20 minutes
Gwenevere Abriel: They ridiculous minutes. What else
Gwenevere Abriel: Rich
Elizabeth Sandoval: Maybe, like you said, we can have that time to talk about, like, maybe just how we're feeling for the day, or even start that in the morning, you know,
Elizabeth Sandoval: Goodness.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Accomplished starter thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: What was your high. What was your low when maybe high might be
Gwenevere Abriel: Something like
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, let's start our day with what we're feeling most proud of about the day before.
Gwenevere Abriel: It might be
Gwenevere Abriel: What we're excited about today and what we're afraid of today and you write those up there. And so you don't have to overanalyze you just say, Okay, guys. What's this one. Here's mine. What's yours. Here's mine.
Gwenevere Abriel: What am I proud of from yesterday, what am I looking forward to today and what am I afraid of. Maybe that's your three. Maybe you have some other lists that write it down because in the moment we might get shy, someone might back out. Nope, we wrote it down.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we all do it. Okay, you've got bake a cake ridiculousness for 20 minutes. Tell me more about tech talk to me more about video games, tell me how that could all be something collectives.
Elizabeth Sandoval: And just play together like a bunch of cool games on there like Mario Kart is always fun to play for at a time.
Elizabeth Sandoval: We always have a good time when we do those things together.
Gwenevere Abriel: A Mario Kart. Yep. You can walk over to
Gwenevere Abriel: Racing racing. Okay. Write them down to this, this, this, these are right in front of you. They're already written out
Gwenevere Abriel: On the fly. We don't have to try to remember, it's not for most visual everybody sees them on the fridge. It's right there. This is what we're going to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you do it. What about something painted drawn something, anything in that space because it's in the middle of the day, we could do something else.
Here.
Elizabeth Sandoval: I would like to paint or draw, they all like to draw me know so
Elizabeth Sandoval: That would be nice to me also.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now what about a movement. What about an exercise a walk, something
Elizabeth Sandoval: evening walk
Gwenevere Abriel: nice evening walk
Gwenevere Abriel: You might even put that walk in there. It could be any time of day. It could be that long.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Were to walk the puppy.
Gwenevere Abriel: So also with puppy. Sometimes it's let's play with a puppy. Let's each get him. I know with mine. It's, you know, we throw it, and he runs from one person to the next. And this is kind of fun thing. So we could add something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And go. You could see your very first entry into this Elizabeth can be going and talking to your son proactive talking with your niece on the phone saying I want to do this differently.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think coming at you with rules. I want to come at this different I want to come at you with understanding and my own truth telling which is I'm terrified.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I look at you and I see myself and I'm overwhelmed and I i I've been yelling, but really when I
Gwenevere Abriel: Write
Elizabeth Sandoval: In your
Gwenevere Abriel: But this is no time.
Gwenevere Abriel: To not show the truth. This is yeah, this is where we get okay there's nothing wrong me, not knowing this is this is scary. This is uncertain. And so you say, nice. Give me your name. So I stopped calling it that was his first name.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Mariah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so Mariah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mariah. You're going to notice something else. I know I've been saying hey don't bring alcohol. That is true. But I haven't been telling you what we're going to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the difference. I want you to come over. Don't have to sneak in. I want you to come over here, I've got this list on the fridge. These are the things that we're going to do. We're going to set up some ritual.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to get closer. From this, we're going to stay connected every evening, blah, blah, blah, blah. We're going to make enchiladas. And we're going to have, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Taco Tuesday, and we're going to have meatloaf Monday and we're just going to do it. We're not going to overthink it. We're just going to come on over. We're just going to make it. We're going to do
Gwenevere Abriel: And I love you and everything is going to be okay. I'm scared to but let's do these things. Let's not go to drugs and alcohol. I'm tempted to
Gwenevere Abriel: To escape. You know, I already have my grief to and I'm scared. But I think the way is through connecting with each other and being there for each other and you do it proactively
Gwenevere Abriel: So she knows what to expect. And so, you know, this is what we're going to do we're going to do more of the things that help us feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take a minute here, right at the end. Elizabeth and kind of kind of track back what you noticed about yourself throughout today's session and just just sort of be a witness to it and
Elizabeth Sandoval: I'll do when I
Elizabeth Sandoval: When I first started, I felt like you know it was a look a lot. I had more anxiety. I told you that I felt like, you know, I wanted to jump out of my skin so over the time of talking
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like I felt like I started to realize
Elizabeth Sandoval: And then we put things in perspective.
Elizabeth Sandoval: And I started a calm down and feel more at ease. So thank you for that, because it is really do help me.
Gwenevere Abriel: But notice, notice what you did. I didn't do anything special.
Gwenevere Abriel: You did.
Gwenevere Abriel: The work you shared and you did it a bit like an onion. So maybe you could skip the few top layers and get right to it.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: We started out. Oh, everything's fine. I'm fine.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Leaking, we don't have time for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey, son. I'm sad, let's go play a video game, my son, I need a hug and you give them a hug and you cry.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is. That's what this is, this is whatever's happening than that we name it, we say, Oh my gosh, it's hit me so hard right now. Hey guys, anybody up for a walk. I'm having a really hard time of it and off you go.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know we make cake last night. Let's Enchiladas now. Let's go. Who's cutting the chase, who cut the trees. Let's go.
Gwenevere Abriel: You get into it. Okay, isolating that's when we get the irritable and then we start making up these stories about this emptiness and loneliness and this is all there's going to be
Gwenevere Abriel: Moving towards these people that you love. I think that's where the healing is
Elizabeth Sandoval: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Whatever you saw yourself doing here that worked you more that
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I didn't do anything.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yeah.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like, just let it out.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Scheduling I'm so I feel scared to let it out and that's with the problem with like I'm gonna break down but it's like released. I feel so much better now, literally, you know,
Elizabeth Sandoval: Like, oh well.
Gwenevere Abriel: You didn't let it all out. Let's be honest.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know that you could come in here, crying, not say a word Christ and more sniffle blow your nose Christ and more and leave this session crime.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that was a productive session.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes it's like that. Okay, look you, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to be okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to be hard because you loved hard
Gwenevere Abriel: You're blessed
Gwenevere Abriel: It means the last will be felt. And it honors that relationship. Tough shit right
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the cost. We got to teach our children, you gotta risk it all. Anyway, love deeply it'll hurt all the more but we got to do it. What else is this life about
Elizabeth Sandoval: love and happiness.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's temporary
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the other piece that most of us humans, we want to look at that part it is temporary so appreciate it go spend time with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now it's in the form of daughter and son and nice and brother. Well, he's here to talk to you and be with single be right. Go do those things.
Gwenevere Abriel: And yes, it will be scary, but it will be happy to.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you want to
Gwenevere Abriel: Go to group next time and then schedule your next appointment, since there's lots going on, you want to kind of keep it slow is like that. What would you prefer.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Yeah, if I could do that just for now, you know,
Elizabeth Sandoval: I get really saved from week to week right now. Like what's gonna be happening.
Elizabeth Sandoval: If we could do it like that. Glenn just is. I don't want to break. No more five minutes with you at all.
Elizabeth Sandoval: And then also, if you could ever have Dr. Solomon. He gave me one from Korea well for today.
Elizabeth Sandoval: You know bridge to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll go back. Thank you for that. That was gonna be my next question. So orders up here. And so your next group is going to be what nine o'clock on Monday. When are you going
Elizabeth Sandoval: He was yeah Monday night.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And don't
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't forget to finish that list.
Okay.
Elizabeth Sandoval: All right, some more to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It might even include you read a prayer, it might include that.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, let's just two minute. This is my favorite feel it. Let's do some deep breathing together. I just learned this, this thing for my therapist is this little video. Let's go do this together. Add as many as you can to that list.
Elizabeth Sandoval: And then I'm going for Dr. Oliver. Can we do that too. We weren't just throw it off to be going back to the back of the pharmacy.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just going to tell him you were here it's beyond my pay grade.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Okay, okay. Well, that's fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: He attended in there and we'll be in group next week, Monday.
Yes.
Elizabeth Sandoval: Beautiful. Thank you for everything.
Elizabeth Sandoval: For you.
Elizabeth Sandoval: We appreciate you very much.
You bet.
Gwenevere Abriel: I look
Elizabeth Sandoval: Beautiful day
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. I'll talk to you soon. Bye.
Bye.